Add WIF documentation for Azure Auth and Secrets engines (#27185)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/auth/azure.mdx

   For the complete list of configuration options, please see the API
   documentation.

   In some cases, you cannot set sensitive account credentials in your
   Vault configuration. For example, your organization may require that all
   security credentials are short-lived or explicitly tied to a machine identity.

   To provide managed identity security credentials to Vault, we recommend using Vault
   [plugin workload identity federation](#plugin-workload-identity-federation-wif)
   (WIF) as shown below.

1.  Alternatively, configure the audience claim value and the Client, Tenant IDs for plugin workload identity federation:

   ```text
   $ vault write azure/config \
       tenant_id=7cd1f227-ca67-4fc6-a1a4-9888ea7f388c \
       client_id=dd794de4-4c6c-40b3-a930-d84cd32e9699 \
       identity_token_audience=vault.example/v1/identity/oidc/plugins
   ```

>    Vault's identity token provider will internally sign the plugin identity token JWT.
>    Given a trust relationship is configured between Vault and Azure via
>    Workload Identity Federation, the auth engine can exchange this identity token to obtain
>    federated access tokens.
> 
>    ~> **Notice:** For this trust relationship to be established, Azure must have an
>    a [Federated Identity Credential](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp#configure-a-federated-identity-credential-on-an-app)
>    configured with information about the fully qualified and network-reachable
>    Issuer URL for Vault's plugin [identity token provider](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-well-known-configurations).
>    This is to ensure that Azure can fetch the JWKS [public keys](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-active-public-keys)
>    and verify the plugin identity token signature. To configure Vault's Issuer,
>    please refer to the Identity Tokens
>    [documentation](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#configure-the-identity-tokens-backend)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The Vault identity token provider signs the plugin identity token JWT internally.
   If a trust relationship exists between Vault and Azure through WIF, the auth
   engine can exchange the Vault identity token for a federated access token.
     
   To configure a trusted relationship between Vault and Azure:

      - You must configure the [identity token issuer backend](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#configure-the-identity-tokens-backend)
        for Vault.

      - Azure must have a
        [Federated Identity Credential](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp#configure-a-federated-identity-credential-on-an-app)
        configured with information about the fully qualified and network-reachable
        issuer URL for the Vault plugin
        [identity token provider](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-well-known-configurations).

   Establishing a trusted relationship between Vault and Azure ensures that Azure
   can fetch JWKS
   [public keys](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-active-public-keys)
   and verify the plugin identity token signature.
```

AZURE_GO_SDK_LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
```

## Plugin Workload Identity Federation (WIF)

<EnterpriseAlert product="vault" />

> The Azure auth engine supports the Plugin WIF workflow, and has a source of identity called
> a plugin identity token. The plugin identity token is a JWT that is internally signed by Vault's
> [plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Azure auth engine supports the plugin WIF workflow, and has a source of identity called
a plugin identity token. A plugin identity token is a JWT that is signed internally by the Vault
[plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration).
```

If there is a trust relationship configured between Vault and Azure through

> [Workload Identity Federation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[workload identity federation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation),
```

the auth engine can exchange its identity token for short-lived access tokens needed to
perform its actions.

Exchanging identity tokens for access tokens lets the Azure auth engine
operate without configuring explicit access to sensitive client credentials.

To configure the auth engine to use plugin WIF:

1. Ensure that Vault [openid-configuration](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-token-issuer-s-openid-configuration)
   and [public JWKS](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-identity-token-issuer-s-public-jwks)
   APIs are network-reachable by Azure. We recommend using an API proxy or gateway
   if you need to limit Vault API exposure.

1. Configure a

>    [Federated Identity Credential](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp#configure-a-federated-identity-credential-on-an-app)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   [federated identity credential](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp#configure-a-federated-identity-credential-on-an-app)
```

   on a dedicated application registration in Azure to establish a trust relationship with Vault.
   1. The issuer URL **must** point at your [Vault plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration) with the
   `/.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix removed. For example:
   `https://host:port/v1/identity/oidc/plugins`.

>    1. The subject identifier **must** match the unique `sub` claim issued by plugin identity tokens.
>    This will be of the form `plugin-identity:<NAMESPACE>:auth:<AZURE_MOUNT_ACCESSOR>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. The subject identifier **must** match the unique `sub` claim issued by plugin identity tokens.
   The subject identifier should have the form `plugin-identity:<NAMESPACE>:auth:<AZURE_MOUNT_ACCESSOR>`.
```

   1. The audience should be under 600 characters. The default value in Azure is `api://AzureADTokenExchange`.

> 1. Configure the Azure auth engine with the OIDC audience value and the Client, Tenant IDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure the Azure auth engine with the client and tenant IDs and the OIDC audience value.
```

AZURE_GO_SDK_LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
```

## Plugin Workload Identity Federation (WIF)

<EnterpriseAlert product="vault" />

> The Azure auth engine supports the plugin WIF workflow, and has a source of identity called

Reviewer 2: I notice this page uses "auth **engine**" everywhere, but we generally refer the feature as "auth **method**". Since we're editing the page, can we say "auth **engine**" for consistency?

```suggestion
The Azure auth method supports the plugin WIF workflow, and has a source of identity called
```

   APIs are network-reachable by Azure. We recommend using an API proxy or gateway
   if you need to limit Vault API exposure.

1. Configure a
   [federated identity credential](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp#configure-a-federated-identity-credential-on-an-app)
   on a dedicated application registration in Azure to establish a trust relationship with Vault.
   1. The issuer URL **must** point at your [Vault plugin identity token issuer](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tokens#read-plugin-workload-identity-issuer-s-openid-configuration) with the
   `/.well-known/openid-configuration` suffix removed. For example:
   `https://host:port/v1/identity/oidc/plugins`.
   1. The subject identifier **must** match the unique `sub` claim issued by plugin identity tokens.
   The subject identifier should have the form `plugin-identity:<NAMESPACE>:auth:<AZURE_MOUNT_ACCESSOR>`.
   1. The audience should be under 600 characters. The default value in Azure is `api://AzureADTokenExchange`.

1. Configure the Azure auth engine with the client and tenant IDs and the OIDC audience value.

> ```shell-session
> $ vault write azure/config \
>     tenant_id=7cd1f227-ca67-4fc6-a1a4-9888ea7f388c \
>     client_id=dd794de4-4c6c-40b3-a930-d84cd32e9699 \
>     identity_token_audience=vault.example/v1/identity/oidc/plugins
> ```

Reviewer 2: To align the command example to its description, add proper indentation:

````suggestion
   ```shell-session
   $ vault write azure/config \
       tenant_id=7cd1f227-ca67-4fc6-a1a4-9888ea7f388c \
       client_id=dd794de4-4c6c-40b3-a930-d84cd32e9699 \
       identity_token_audience=vault.example/v1/identity/oidc/plugins
   ```
````
